Acl - access control list package for fine-grained access control on files and directories.
Attr - package for administering extended attributes on filesystem objects.
Autoconf - package for producing shell scripts that automatically configure source code from a developer template.
Automake - package for producing Make files from a template.
Bash - Bourne shell interface to the operating system.
Bc - arbitrary precision numeric processing language. Used when building the Linux kernel.
Binutils - provides a linke, assembler, and other tools for handling object files.
Bison - contains the GNU version of yacc (Yet another compiler compiler).
Bzip2 - contains programs for compressing and decompressing files.
Check - provides a test harness for other programs. It is only used with the temporary toolchain.
Coreutils - provides a number of essential programs for viewing and manipulating files and directories.
DejaGNU - framework for testing other programs. It is only used with the temporary toolchain.
Diffutils - contains programs that show the difference between files and directories.
E2fsprogs - utilities for handling ext2, ext3, and ext4 filesystems.
Eudev - device manager package.
Expat - contains a relatively small XML parsing library.
Expect - testing program used to carry out scripted dialogues with other programs. Only used with the temporary toolchain.
File - used to determine file types.
Finutils - provides programs to find files in a filesystem.
Flex - program that is used for generating programs that recognize patterns in text. It is the GNU version of lex.
Gawk - GNU version of awk.
Gcc - GNU Compiler Collection.
GDBM - GNU Database Manager Library
Gettext - contains utilities that are used for the internationalization and localization of other packages.
Glibc - The main GNU C library.
GMP - Math library that is used for arbitrary precision arithmetic.
Gperf - generates a hash function from a key set. Used by Eudev.
Grep - program used for searching for text within a file.
Groff - used to process text. Used by man pages.
GRUB - the Grand Unified Boot Loader.
Gzip - program for compressing and decompressing files.
Iana-etc - provides data for network services and protocols.
Inetutils - programs for basic network administration.
Intltool - used to extract translatable strings from source files.
IProute2 - basic and advanced IPv4 and IPv6 utilities.
Kbd - contains key-table files, keyboard utilities for non-US keyboards, and a number of console fonts.
Kmod - progams used to administer Linux kernel modules.
Less - text viewer.
Libcap - user-space interface for POSIX 1003.1e capabilities in the Linux kernel.
Libpipeline - contains libraries for manipulating pipelines of subprocesses.
Libtool - The generic GNU support script. A wrapper around the complexities of using shared libraries.
Linux Kernel - The Linux Kernel.
M4 - general text macro processor.
Make - program used for directing the building of packages.
Man-DB - program used for finding and viewing man pages.
Man-pages - The basic set of Linux documentation.
MPC - Library for complex number arithmetic.
MPFR - Library for multiple precision arithmetic.
Ncurses - Libraries for handling terminal characters on screen.
Patch - Used to apply patches to programs.
Perl - A PERL language interpreter.
Pkg-config - program used to return meta-data about an installed library or package.
Procps-NG - programs used to monitor processes.
Psmisc - used for displaying information about running processes.
Readline - set of libraries that offers command-line editing and history capabilities.
Sed - the sed streaming editor.
Shadow - handle passwords in a secure fashion.
Sysklogd - used for logging messages, such as those given by the kernel or daemon processes when unusual events occur.
Sysvinit - The init program.
Tar - The Tap archiving utility.
Tcl - Tool Command Language. Used in test suites and only installed with the temporary toolchain.
Texinfo - used for manipulating info files.
Util-linux - various utility programs.
Vim - The vim editor.
XML::Parser - Perl module used with Expat.
XZ Utils - utilities for compressing and decompressing files.
Zlib - library containing functions for compressing and decompressing files.
